Today's lecture is actually relatively easy at the beginning, but I will be closing with a topic which you
may find a little bit difficult. So listen up very closely to the examples I'm going to give and the
illustrations I'm going to make and the stories I'm going to tell to accompany those illustrations which
will help you to understand it towards the later part of the lecture. Now during lecture one, I did tell you
about one of the reasons why land law, this module, is considered a ungodly jungle. I I give you the
reasons of technical jargon. And one of the reasons I emphasized English. That's one of the reasons.
So if the roots of all the rules that we are studying are in rooted in English legal history. Last week, I
already referred to one of the important landmark events in English legal history, which has such an
important implication for us. Can anyone recall what that was? An event in English legal history, which,
you know, has such had such significant implications for us. Matthew, you wanna try from last week.
One event. Today, we are going to another event in English legal history. Anybody? And anyone recall
what that was? Join on time. I look back at your notes if you like. Remember the declaration made that
all land belongs to the king. Oh, I'm very Which king? Which king? King William. Who's there? Norman
conquest of 1066. Nothing to do with us at all. So far away in history, so far removed from our country.
That was the trigger for the doctrine of which one? Which doctrine is that associated with? Hello. We
have tutorial tomorrow. Right? You'll have to to read up. Tomorrow is Thursday. Oh, tomorrow is
tomorrow, isn't Thursday? Oh, no? You think yours is yeah. Okay. You have a little No? Yours is yeah.
If you can you have a little bit of deep time. But for the ordinary groups, I'm I'm not expecting silence
when I ask questions like this. I want you to tell me, And the answers are actually there in the lecture
notes. So let me reiterate. What am I talking about? I'm talking direct implications for us? Oh, because
of the second charter of justice. That's why. What's that? What's the second charter of justice is 1?
What is the second charter of justice? It is the introduction of a single system of law and order for all
Singaporeans without discrimination. Mhmm. Really? How so? How how how is the second charter of
justice? An introduction of a system of law and order for all for all Singaporeans? Without
discrimination. How where do you get that from? My nose. Wikipedia. Who gave you those? Wiki.
What's the you're not Not wrong also. Not not getting to the gist of it. Okay. Who issued the second
charter of justice? 4 g one just now. What? 4 g one. What is the second charter of justice? It's the most
important legal document in the court system. The legal document that what? Sorry. Herald the the
English legislation. Now remember, okay, this is your your one word. I'll quickly tell you so that it falls
into place for you. There was no organized system of law in Singapore at this time of its founding.
Which law to apply? Immigrant fishermen, different races, different religions, different ethnicities,
different practices. So the who passed? Who issued the 2nd charter of justice, Glenda? Who issued the
2nd charter of justice? Logic will tell him who issued it. British crown. British crown. Yeah. Good. The
British crown issued it for Singapore. And what was the provision? Of the British crown in the second
charter of justice. Guess what it might have said? Is one you wanna try and rephrase it? What do you
think it would have said? Given the background and the multiple ethnicities and religions and practices,
What do you think this document would have directed? What what what what is it prescribing? Equality.
Equality according to what principles? What principles? Danish. What principles would apply? No? We
already said the origin is the British crown. We already said that. What entitled the British crown to
make laws for Singapore? Rachel. This is common sense. Okay? What entitle the British crown to
make laws for Singapore? We call it Okay. Another country made laws for us. Why? It's my poverty. We
are part of the straight settlements at the time. So they had the authority to do that. Following? So they
had the authority to make law for us until 1955. Until 1955, the British crown was passing laws for us.
Similarly, the second charter of justice was passed but nobody has told me what it did. Nobody has
explained what it did. On track? What is it? What is the second charter of this institute? What do you
think? So far from what we have said, what do you think the second charter of justice is? Was it to
decide cases according to equality? To get equality? Was that what is that what it did? Try again.
Mhmm. Based on? Equality. Common law. This is for my mind. Equality to you is different from equality
to me. Today, there is a controversy stirred in the newspaper about caning. Caning as a form of
punishment. Caning. That penalty as a form of punishment. We think it's fine. We in Singapore think it
works. Other things are inhuman. It's it's it's uncivilized. I mean, does it work? Is it a deterrent? So what
when I say according to principles of equality, it needs to be anchored on something. So long story
short, the second charter of justice is a law passed by the British crown for Singapore as to what type of
law will apply in Singapore and what type is that? What type of law was to apply? English law. We that's
how we adopted the common law principles. Are we following? So when I speak of the 2nd charter of
justice, yes, you are right. It introduce a system of law and order. It use a system of formal courts
instead of what we call palm tree justice. Sit under a tree and solve your problems. No. You have a
formal court system which is the hierarchy, you remember? Use this one. Hierarchy of course. Yes. So
this is just a trigger for you about one important event in English legal history, which is what? All land
belongs to the king. Yes, sir. Norman Conquest, 1066. Today, we are going into other events as well.
And the bridge between what happened in England, in a society that is so different to ours in a kind of
democracy which is so different to ours. The bridge is the 2nd charter of justice. That connects that to
us today. Alright? Because in our independent state, we still continue to rely or borrow. Though we are
not mandated to follow. Everyone clear? Now for those of you who are from BSB who may not have
gone into this in this much of, I don't even call it detail, but background, let me know if you're having
difficulties with that. Okay? Is everyone okay with that? Alright. Can follow-up. Alright. So today's
lecture topic is called law and equity. And this this particular topic, as I said, starts off a bit easy easy
going, but just ends with a particular concept, which is an extremely important concept. So let's get
going with this. Alright. So what are our objectives for today? One of the important things you need to
know is how did this thing this concept called equity emerge. Now I'm sure you have heard the word
equitable. I'm sure you've heard the word. What is the meaning you think the word equitable means? Is
it what you did is not equitable? Or I want an equitable distribution. Can you substitute a word for equity
equitable? Can you give me another word? Anybody? Try. Fair. Fair. You say equal but Equal is not
fair. Right? So it's more about fair. What is fair? And what we're gonna find out is we are going to see
examples of how laws which did not give rise to fair outcomes were influenced by this body of rules
called equity. Right? And what we wanna try and find out is how did this merge? How how did this
whole thing happen? And then we are going to look at number 2, whereby we are going to find out what
is common law courts, courts of equity work alongside. What does that mean? And then this is the I I
think that this is what over the years students have found a little bit difficult which is we will close with
the doctrine of trust. Alright? So how we are gonna go about, yes, and and how to differentiate between
legal rights and equitable rights. What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna talk about the administration of
common law up to the 14th century. I want you to keep in mind that there's a timeline here. 1066.
Which century is that? 11th century. Alright? From 11th century up to 14th century, we have the
common law rules applying. I'll explain all that in more detail in a moment. And then what we're gonna
find out is what are the characteristics of the common law principles? And then what is the grievances,
problems, difficulties, challenges arising out of the deficiencies of implementation of common law.
Okay? So this is the process it's going to take that we are going to explain. Let's first start off with the
common law. When? Which year? Let's remind ourselves 11th century. After the Norman Conquest in
10/66, all land belongs to the king and we have the start, the genesis of the common law system. What
common law system? Let's talk about it in a little more depth. Okay? So according to the common law
system, the king was responsible for dispensing justice. Remember, England had a has not had, has a
monarchy. What's the meaning of monarchy? The king rules over his subjects and it's carried through
the centuries. That is why the coronation process was, you know, treated with so much seriousness,
pump and tradition. If any of you watched it. The coronation of King Charles after the queen died.
Alright. So you have this monarchy which are looked upon as seriously representatives of God. They
are looked upon as representatives of God, chosen by God to rule over the subjects. It is a concept that
can be traced back to many many generations back to the 11th century. The the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the that was taken of the king. Okay. And what the king would do is that he
would set up courts in various counties across England. Let me repeat. Set up courts in various
counties across the whole of England, and that is how the term common law arose because it was the
law which was applied by the king and his officers throughout all the courts. The the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the I'm naming all the football teams. But these are the these are the places where the courts
were set up and a common law was applied. That's how the word common law came about. No
differentiation. And what we are gonna find is that in the application of In the application of the common
law, from when to when? From 11th century to 14th, 7th century. So we are compressing 300 years of
application of rules by the king. 300 years compression into a few minutes discussion. Okay? So you
must appreciate it was it happened over time. A body of deficiencies arose, Of course. When anything
starts off, there will be flaws. Think simply go. Okay? There will be flaws. You try and implement
something new. There will be difficulties. There will be flaws. There will be challenges. And what I'm
going to set out to you now are some of the We want to take it to court but the outcome is deficient.
Let's have a look. Okay. The first deficiency started with what is known as the writ system. So let's think
of what is a writ. 1st point, it is a formal legal document. Okay? It is a formal legal document. So if I
have a concern against you, if I have a problem or disagreement with you, I had to fulfill fulfill the
requirements of a writ. Fulfill the requirements of a writ. Now, can you think of a scenario where you
might have a dispute with somebody? Let's use here one word to try and give me an example of where
you have a dispute with somebody. Who would like to try? Yes. Kimberly, can you try? Mutual contract.
A dispute. For equality. Uh-uh disagreement with somebody. Give me an example. What did you say?
Legal agreement. Yeah. Pertaining to what? Give me a bit more detail. Can you give me a bit more
detail, Changwin? Changwin? Get the details open. Give me an example of a dispute. Any dispute.
Anything. With somebody. Your one work. It's your work. Bring on a track. Give me an example of a
dispute you have with someone. Yeah. Ken. Wrongfully terminated. Okay. Very good. Give me another
one. Amanda on track. Give me an example of a dispute with tax. So your dispute is with your
employer. Then yours? Right. The that is good. Defective goods. Very good. Faulty laptop. Faulty
mobile phone. How about you go to a restaurant and they have shortchanged you? Because what they
have promised in the ingredient list was not there. Or they told you that that, it doesn't contain nuts, but
it did contain nuts and it triggered an allergic response, for example, Or a food poisoning case. Rakesh,
give me another example of a dispute. Is he correct? Trespassing. Trespassing. Very good. Another
one. Breach of contract. Breach of contract. Yeah. Very good. Breach of contract, Shabnam. Give me
an example of a dispute you have what? The. Situations in which, Richard? You say you say that. Say
you say that. What can you do in misrepresentation, defective goods, wrongful termination,
trespassing. What can you do in a situation like that? Sick. Seek legal remedy. Very good. Because
each of these which you have volunteered. Examples of what? A legal basis to claim compensation. It's
a recognized legal basis to claim compensation. Okay? So when we talk about the writ system, the writ
will have to contain a legal basis. What legal basis? Wrongful termination, defective product,
trespassing, misrepresentation, mistake, illegality, frustration. Any of those negligence who poisoning,
there must be a basis on which to sue. And when you have rattled off all these examples, today,
standing here in 2024, we have a long list of legal basis on which to sue. Such a long list because it has
developed and evolved over the years. But in the past when the system was just starting, you only had
a very limited number of rates. Very limited number. What's the meaning of limited number? It's like
going into a restaurant and the restaurant which is new has only got 5 items on its menu. That's it. And
you ask for scrambled egg, it's not on the menu. You can't get it. When you think that it's something so
obvious. Husbandos. Are you following what I'm saying? Just giving you an analogy. That when
something is starting out, you may not have the full slew or full range of options. And in a case like that,
in a case like that, can you tell me how would you feel if you if you felt that you have been wrong? You
felt that you have been shortchanged? You felt that someone has not given you justice for the money
that you have paid but there was no remedy for that. No remedy for that. And this was one of the
biggest issues that arose regarding the common law system was the limited number of writs or the
limited circumstances under which a person could get a remedy. Who is that person? The plaintiff. The
plaintiff. Very limited. I can't get a remedy. But actually, I've been wronged. But who won't recognizes
it? Why? Oh, because there's no rate. Alright? So that's the first one. Next one, court procedure. Now
anybody who has watched the court procedure, what are your, what impression do you get about court
procedure, Ryan? Can you start off? When you want to watch a movie or tea, dramatization of court
proceedings, what impression do you get? What's the what's the feeling you get about court
proceedings? In what sense? In what sense? In what sense? Proceedings of court hearing. Anyone or
anyone can try. When you watch court proceedings I don't know. How do you view them? Is it a joyous
occasion? Serious. Yes. Serious, sir? What else? Johnny there. Anyone? I see that. Very? Systematic.
Very good. There's an order. Right? Cannot just raise your hand and speak. Right? You can't do that.
You have a time and a place to speak. What else, Anas? What strikes you about court proceedings?
Serious? Systematic, someone? Any any other observations about trials that that you have seen in
court? A lot of rebuttals. Okay. A lot of rebuttals but if you want to rebut, you can only speak at the time
assigned to you, isn't it? True. Okay. Now the point about card procedure. I mean, the word procedure
is a giveaway. What? The word procedure is telling you that there is a certain certain steps to follow. It's
not a free for all. Not what have you got to say? What have you got to say? So what's the position? I
may have a chat. No. Not at all. Do you notice that the judge is always on an elevated platform? Okay.
That's already a power play going on here. Okay. And, how about the color code? It's black and white.
It's black and white. Anything too colorful and the judge will tell you leave and go and change and come
back. And then okay. That's just the attire. That's just the attire. It's not even talking about the steps that
you need to follow in the get up to the case and the paperwork and the filing of evidence and the,
notarizing of documents which are signed. What's meaning of notarized? You have to swear that what
you're saying is true. When I submit my evidence, I have to swear that what I'm saying is true. That is
called affidavit. Okay. Let's call it an affidavit. And there are very strict timelines. Very strict timelines
meanings that if I have served the writ on you, you have 14 days to respond to me. If you miss the
timeline, judgment can be made against you. There is a time for filing of documents and suppose some
new evidence has come up. After you have filed the documents, you must inform the other side. More
points. You must. Yeah. Why? Because when the plaintiff and defendant come to court, they must be
on an equal footing. Don't have a surprise witness outside the door waiting and just walks in. That's
only in the movies. Okay? You can't do it. You have to have the defendant know what's the case
against you. You can't keep it a secret. Surprise. Surprise. I have a secret. Witness cannot. The
defendant must know to ensure. Because what's the fundamental rule for common law systems?
Innocent until proven guilty. Okay? I know we tend to judge a person who is a defendant. I know it
happens. But remember, it's innocent until proven guilty. And there's no news for the plaintiff to say,
you know what? I know he's guilty. I can sense it. When a working court. What do you need? What do
you need in court? What's the e word? Evidence. You need evidence. Of course, there's circumstantial
evidence. This is hardcore evidence. Now even that can be fake, right? You heard about Taylor Swift,
right? Okay? And you haven't heard, you're gonna have a look what's happening with the deep fakes
happening about her. Alright? Where where, it it posts about her have been removed because of all
the, pornography that has been generated by AR featuring her. Right. Right. So in a world where we
Surrounded by technology where it is so easy to produce evidence. K? I can take somebody else's
head and put on the body and and then you'll see. Yeah. That's it. It's true. You cannot believe what
you're reading or what you're seeing anymore. Okay? But anyway, here what I'm trying to convey to
you is that God procedure has very stringent rules. What is the purpose of the rules? From what you
hear showing, when we talk about procedure in court rules, what what what does it try to ensure? In
your opinion, what does it try to ensure? Why have such rules? To ensure fairness, transparency, and
there must be I mean, there must be a timeline to keep the system moving. Right? Okay. If you don't
respond to me in 14 days, how long must I wait? How long am I supposed to wait? Why are you not
responding? Oh, you know, many people just don't respond. They think the thing will go away. Right?
They will go away. No. Judgment will be taken against you. Those are examples of rules of court
procedure honed over a period of time to ensure fairness, transparency, and the moving along of the
system. K? So sometimes, of course, while rules are always good, it can also happen that rules result
in unfairness, which is the reason the defendant did not respond in 14 days was because he was sick.
For an example. Now we're talking about a time and age when there's no mobile phones. We're talking
about a time and age when there's the means of communication was snail. Mail. What snail mail? Snail
mail? What snail mail? Very slow. Yes. When is snail slow? It's difficult. Or considered slow? Physical.
Yes, I think. Physical letters. Physical letters. Yeah. Have you ever posted a letter before? Have a son?
When I was teaching the year ones, they didn't know what posting a letter meant. You know? Because
you've never been using those boxes outside the MIT stations, like, Singapore, other countries. Right?
There's somewhere where you drop a letter in, isn't it? That is a letter box. That used to be the mode of
communication in the past. So there may be reasons why the mail did not get to you in time, for
example. And what results in following rules too closely is that you throw discretion out the window. No
discretion. It's just like, oh, you can't attend the you so so I very often get let me give you examples. I'm
gonna pepper this lecture with examples so that you can understand it better. Alright? So very
frequently, I get email request. Ma'am, I cannot attend the odd week class just for neck For tutorial 1,
can I attend the even week class, for example? K? Now for me, it's much easier if all of you stick to your
assigned groups. Much easier. I take attendance, you know, award marks for contribution, participation,
etcetera. And if you go and mix up that system and come for another group where you do not belong to
and your name is not on the list, it's a bit of an inconvenience for me. If I were taking a common law
approach, I'll say, no, you have to attend the group you are assigned to. Full stop. Strict. If I were going
to take a softer approach, I'll say, give me a valid reason why you can't make it, and I will accommodate
you this time. Softer approach. Common law took the stricter approach. Common law adhered by the
rules for the sake of convenience is you. Convenience. Methodical. Follow the system. Leaving very
little room for discretion. Because if you apply, you know, if you exercise discretion then you allow for
this one, then what about that one and that one and that one? We it messes up things. It slows down
things. But common law's approach was we want to keep the system chugging along and we will stick
with the rules. You didn't make your response in 14 days, judgement made against you, for example.
Following so far? Okay. So what we are seeing here is and then the next one. This is again year 1
work, which we have already mentioned just now. What is the remedy which is dished out to the plaintiff
by the court? What is the remedy? What's the usual remedy? That's dished out to the plaintiff by the
court. If his case is proven, what does he get? Louder? Monetary compensation, very good. What is it
known as? Let me just isn't that what we learnt in year 1? What the plaintiff will get is monetary
compensation in the form of damages. And herein, I'm gonna ask you this question. Is damages always
the suitable remedy? And the answer to that is no. I want you to think back on what I taught you. I'll give
you a clue. For the law of thought when damages is not the best remedy. Think back of year 1 under
not contract. K? Law of thought when damages was not the best remedy. There's no point. No point for
me to get damages from the defendant. When? Give me examples. Anyone? Yes. Did you say that?
How do you spell that? I mean, I think money is a good remedy in a situation like that because at least
the person's potential for earning income can be calculated. Right? Right? So damages would be
suitable. My question is when is it not suitable? And I gave you the clue that the example I'm taking is
from the law of tort. Anybody? Okay. Good. Tell me more about trespassing. You don't want the person
to keep coming into your property. You don't want, for example, you know, very common dispute is
between, shopkeepers where their display spills over onto your your side. In a situation like that, will it
suffice if you get compensation? No. Because a person persists in continuing the wrongful activity. So
in a case like that, she wants some other type of remedy. So that's you said trespassing? Any others?
Angie, do you follow what I'm trying to say here? So we're we're trying to think of a situation where
money is not adequate. What else? Dress for me. Give me one more. Yes. Tell me more. Tell me more
about nuisance. I mean, you're okay with getting damages, but it's not solving your problem, you see.
It's not solving your problem. Nuisance from dust and noise and smells and whatnot. What you want the
person to do is to stop it or regulate the timing. So what I'm trying to show you is that at the time, what
time? Between 11th 14th centuries, the only type of remedy which common law would give was
monetary compensation. And it became evidence that monetary compensation doesn't solve or fix
everyone's problems. It doesn't. It's like a doctor who will give only one kind of medicine for all ailments.
Cannot be what? You have to customize the remedy according to the needs of the patient. Right? You
have to customize your remedy according to the needs of the plaintiff as far as possible. You don't give
the plaintiff anything he asks for. That's not what we are saying. But surely, you need more than just
one type. And the one type which was dished out by the common law courts was monetary
compensation. Are you all following? So, what I've just done here is to outline 3 of the major problems
that surfaced between the 11th 14th centuries in the administration of common law across the different
courts. At the time at the time, these courts, okay? The courts which were practicing all these were
called king's corpse. Why? Because the king was the monarch at the time. When the king died and
there were queens reigning, it will be called, guess what? Queen's court. Either it's King's court or
Queen's court, depending on who was a monarch at the time. So when you had all these problems
arising in the administration of common law, over the 300 years, they are called okay, they are called
the agreed citizens. Okay. Why are they agreeing? Oh, they are aggrieved because all these things are
not working in a fair manner. All these things are not yielding the suitable result. And because of that,
there were so many aggrieved citizens and what they did did was to petition the king who was their
fountain of justice. Okay? Remember, it's a man mindset, how you look upon the king. You are the
fountain of justice. We are appealing to you to remedy all these problems. Please assist. Please assist
to solve all these problems. So there were petitions made by the people to all these kings, to to to the
king who was in power and looked upon as the fountain of justice. So you can see some pictures here
like that. And over time, the petitions became so numerous. So many so many people dissatisfied for
the various reasons which we have talked about. So much dissatisfaction. That what did the king do?
The king delegated. He delegated the task to the law chancellor. Okay? So there is a transference of
power to the law chancellor to decide what? To decide all these issues which are being raised by the
aggrieved citizens. You needed help. Too many people are unhappy. So you need advice. So here,
what becomes important is the profile of the law chancellor. Again, historical. Nothing to do with us but
we need to know because it colors so many things that we're gonna learn about in a moment. Right?
So, let's look at the profile of the lord chancellor. How was the lord chancellor described as? He was
described as the Can you put your name? You have a name display? What's your name? Louder,
please. Abigail. Abigail. Okay. Am I Kai? Conscience. What's conscience? What's conscience?
Anyone? What's what's your conscience? Your morality. Morality. Morality is subjective. Right? Morality
is subjective. Is conscience subjective? Maybe. Maybe. But what's conscience? Yeah. When you think
of your conscience, what do you mean? What comes to mind? Do we all have a conscience? No. You
have or you don't wanna listen to the conscience? Daryl, you said no. You said you don't think
everyone has a conscience. I mean, that's a philosophical question. What are you doing? I'm not sure.
But most of us do. Yes. This one. Tell me about conscience. Hello? Oh, yeah. Conscience. Do you
have one? Okay. I don't think I'm in there. So what does your conscience do? Subconsciously tells you
how you feel, how you think about a certain subject. Subconsciously tells you how you feel, how you
think about a certain subject. It subconsciously tells you? How you feel? How you feel about something.
Gotcha. Okay. So if you saw someone robbing another person, what would you do? You can. Keep
quiet? Intervene? Yeah. Or you might get hurt. No. You sound out. The thing about so what's the thing
about conscience, Raphael? How do you view conscience? And you can choose to follow it or not. But
chances are and this is what I think. Tell me if you don't think so. The conscience will always show you
the right way. Will your conscience tell you to hit a child? Yes. Yes. Come back. Cannot be you. Will
your conscience tell you to hit an old lady and grab a necklace? No. I think your conscience will tell you
it's not right, but you work against your conscience. The money launderers, what did their conscience
tell them about the online gambling Okay. And the human trafficking? It's not like you didn't know. You
know? You don't know. Because there's a voice. It's inexplicable. There's a voice but it I don't think it
tells you to do something that's not right. Whether you agree with what was done or not agree with what
was done is a different matter from what your conscience told you. What's this got to do with us? It's
this. So when you look at the lord chancellor who is his actually his right hand man, who was the keeper
of the king's conscience, What do you think is a role played by the lords lord chancellor? What's the
role? What role do you think the law? Because the king needs an adviser. There's this groundswell of
people who are complaining about the system, the common law system. So what is the law chancellor's
role in a situation like this, Eamon? That's right. What do you think? If that if you were the law
chancellor, what would you do? Because you've got this ground swell of complaints from all the
citizenry. Help the king to make a right decision, Samal, a bit more. Zach, a bit more. Give me a little bit
more what the law chancellor would do. If you were in his position. Beside delegating this. Louder,
please. Besides delegating. Louder, please. You mean beside delegating. Besides? Delegating. I've
delegated to you. What would you do? What would you keep in mind as my advice? What will you keep
in mind as my adviser? Making sure standards are there. You need to speak up a bit. Make sure, like,
the proper standards are followed. To ensure that the proper proper Procedures procedures. Mhmm.
Procedures. Procedures. You want to you want me to tell you to follow the procedures? When you
know that the procedures themselves are the problem. Right? So what would the advice be? The
advice would be to exercise more discretion perhaps. Exercise more discretion. Bend the rules a little
bit in the appropriate circumstances. He he he's the keeper of the king's conscience, remember? And
when you talk about keeper of the king's conscience, you need to see what are the problems that
arose. So the keeper of the king's conscience would either tell him, it's okay, stick with it. Stick with it.
You're doing the good thing. Or the keeper of the king's conscience could tell you, maybe you need to
tweak A, B, and C a bit. Maybe. Someone to bounce off ideas with. Are you all following so far? Alright.
So, this is based arising from the problems that I discussed with you and here comes very crucial part
about understanding the lord chancellor. Okay? Very very crucial. His background. His background was
steeped in theology. Christian theology. The background of the adviser was steeped in Christian
theology. What does that mean? What does it mean steeped in theology? Christian principles. He's like
a priest. The person is of a religious background because England was a Christian kingdom. And your
chief adviser is a person who has studied theology through and through. Now when a person is
steeped in religious knowledge. When a person is steeped in religious practices and knowledge and
that's all he has grown up with. What do you expect his conduct to be? Influenced by. I'm not talking
about the American televangelist. I'm not talking about that. I'm not talking about city harvest kind of
scenario. Alright. Where you have to live in Santosa Cove and drive in Rolls Royce. I'm not talking
about that. I'm talking about people who are truly steep in theology and walk their talk. What does that
mean? That you've studied this so much that it's become part of you, you know. You studied this so
much that it's become part of you and your actions are influenced by those principles. And what are
those principles? Oh, the biblical principles, of course, in this case. And when we talk about the biblical
principles, sense of fairness that this lord chancellor was accustomed to doing. Like not to be so harsh,
not to be so bound by the rules, have more compassion, have more, fair outcomes for example. Are
you following? So, that is why the background of the lord chancellor was the king's behalf because
that's his boss. Right? But over time, they started issuing decrease. Decrease our court orders We will
only give you monetary compensation. And then you have something evolving here by the side which is
the lord chancellor's courts. And, of course, these courts came to be known as courts of equity or they
could be known as the chancellor's court. And these are multiple terms used to describe these courts
which arose and the the last one here, which is the court of chancery. K? Court of chancery because it
was by the lord chancellor. So you have chancery court, you have chancellor's court, and you have
court of ecstasy. So I'm gonna ask you a very simple question now to know whether you are on the
same page as me. Alright? Which came first, common law or court of equity? Okay. Alright. So what we
have squeezed into this short discussion is how it evolved over time to address all those problems. The
court of Chancery, litigants were interrogated under oath. To tell the whole truth and nothing but the
truth. Alright, they have to put their hand on the Bible. It started here. It started here. Why? Because it
was a theologian who was administering Of course. Of course there will be conflict but 1 says I will only
give you damages. The other quote is saying but damages are not suitable. One says you have to
follow the 14 day strict timeline. The other one says, but he couldn't meet the 14 day deadline because
he was sick. It's a valid reason. So therefore, there was a conflict bound to happen. And then always
always remember this because I'm gonna pick this matter up in a moment. The objective of the chance
rate court is to mitigate the rigors of the common law. Mitigate the rigors? What's the meaning of
mitigate? Alleviate. Make it less difficult. Mitigate is to help. What are rigors? Strict rules. If something is
rigorous means that, yeah, you it's so like, stuck with those rules. So, automatically applying those rules
without thinking. We're gonna help that. And here comes the punchline. Okay? Beside cases according
to justice and equitable principles, disregarding technicalities. Don't go by technicality so much. Paying
regard to conduct. Can you see a softer touch approach growing here? Okay? Disregard technical
rules. I'm gonna look at your conduct plaintiff. Before I give you a remedy, I'm gonna look at your
conduct. Have you been fair to the defendant? I'm gonna look at your funeral. Because all that will be
added up before a court of equity would grant a remedy. So you can see a shift in the stance and this
led to various maxims. Okay? Now, a maxim of equity. Maxim of equity means that very pity
statements. Okay. What's pity? What's the what's the pit of a, fruit? It's a center. Right? What? The
center. So, pity statements are within within a few words, it sums up the philosophy of the code of
equity. Let's look at the first one. Equity does not suffer a wrong to be without a remedy. How do you
interpret this? Would anyone like to try? Shohin, would you like to try and interpret this? Equity will not
suffer a wrong to be without a remedy. What does that mean? I'll give you a clue. Okay? It's related to
one of the deficiencies. One of the deficiencies. Anyone would like to try. I know it's it's couched in a bit
of a unique way, but what does it mean? Okay. Okay. No? Sorry. One second. Equity does not suffer a
wrong to be without a remedy. Would like to interpret that? Abigail will try. Yeah? Which one in
particular you think? Compensation. Good. Which one? Yeah. Perhaps. Remember I said, if it's not
there's no rate for it to cancel? Oh, money is not an adequate remedy. Too bad. No. Equity says that I'll
not suffer that without the remedy. I will give a remedy. I will fix it. I'll find a way around it. I'll find a way
to give you a remedy that is suitable to you. Alright? And later, I'll talk about it. What were the remedies
that were given which were more suitable. So that a wrong does not continue to be suffered by the
plaintiff. Is that clear? Okay. So this is just within a few words, we have given a explanation. He who
seeks equity must do equity. If you are asking the lord chancellor's court to help you, The law
chancellor is going to check your conduct as plaintiff. Were you fair to the defendant? Yes. Were you?
And then the defendant brings up evidence to show that, you know, you have been harassing him or
things like that. It can be anything. Then you have not done equity. If you have not behaved in a
equitable manner, who are you to? Ask a court of a to help you. This is from the Bible, you know.
Forgive us as we forgive the trespasses of others. This is from the Bible. You're asking God forgive you
but have you forgiven your enemy? And if you haven't, why should God forgive you? So it's from there.
For those of you who know the Bible. And I told you that because the Lord Chancellor was steeped in
theology. He would actually be applying the English the English law according to based on those
principles. And it completely makes sense because if the plaintiff himself has been unfair, how can you
ask a court of equity to be effective? K? So that's the rationale for that one. Delay defeats equity. If you
don't bring up your case in a timely way, the code of equity will not assist you. You have to bring up
your case in a timely way. You have to bring up the evidence in a timely way. If you unduly delay it
without, good reason, equity is not gonna lend help you. This is god helps those who help themselves.
This is that actually. God helps those who help themselves. Also from the bible. Alright? Then I'm not
trying to convert any of you, okay? Please, please don't take me wrongly. I'm just trying to show you the
influence of Christian principles through the law chancellor into the court of equity. Alright? Okay. Equity
looks to intent rather than the form. Equity looks to intent rather than the form. What does this mean?
Code of equity is not so hung up about did you follow all the rules? Did you fill in all the forms? Code of
equity is more focused on what's the intention. Of course, everything has to be considered in totality, of
course. But you're not gonna get bogged down by, oh, you didn't sign on one of the pages properly.
Okay. For example, I'm just giving you an example. And it looks more towards the overall intention
rather than the form, which is what common law would do. Alright? I think it's a nice place for us to start
to stop before we go on to the harder part of this class. Alright? So 2 minutes, A lot of the finance stuff,
which is our own which we are doing. So this one, you all need to listen up very closely because it's a
slightly more difficult part of today's lecture. Right? Now so so far, what have we understood about
inequity? Right. What what what are your joy? Tell me what have you understood about equity so far
from what I've said. Like, what is your impression about the first hour of our lecture? Not as strict,
Samal? Yes. Next. Sorry. I can't see your name. Not as strict then. Not only monetary compensation.
Okay. Rather than just monetary compensation, they will give a suitable remedy. Right? What else?
Anything else? Try 2. Yojin, wanna try about equity? Providing fair outcomes. Okay. Right. Providing
suitable outcomes, providing fair outcomes, Louder, please. Irene. Irene? Yeah. What impression do
you get about equity? What's your impression of equity? Louder face. What impression do you get
about equity? Here and with, like, objectives. You need to speak up a bit, please? With objectives,
opinions. I can't hear you. Yes. Okay. Can someone repeat what she's saying? I can't hear. Uh-huh.
Object. Tell me what she's saying. With objective. Fairness? With with a big set of objectives. Fairness
to meet certain objectives. Yeah. Correct. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Alright. So what we find is that the
thing that is underlying about the core level equity is tennis. Kind of like doing the right thing. Doing the
suitable thing. And we're gonna see that illustrated in what is called last time used to be called the use.
Now it's called trust. Okay? So the word trust here is used in a legal sense, and let me explain what
happened. And we are looking at, 13th 14th history again. It's a little bit of history. Trust me now. 13th
14th century, England. The wars called the crusades were going on. Crusades. The crusades were
wars fought to bring other countries around United Kingdom under Christian rule. Right? Now it was
also a time I want you to think that this timing is 13th for 14th century England when women did not go
out to work. Women could not own property in their own name. They were not recognized as a legal
person. The woman was not recognized as a person with the legal capacity to own land. Alright? So
may I introduce now this person who has been recruited to go away on the walls is a land owner.
Alright? Is a land owner. And he has a wife and kids, okay? His wife and kids. He's going away on war.
On the orders of the king. What is his biggest fear? He may not return. His biggest fear is he may not
return. So what did he do? He appointed someone to be his trustee. So he's got sizable assets and he's
going away on war. He's not sure if he'll ever make it back. Such is the nature of war. He appointed
someone as his trustee. The the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the to all his assets was vested in the trustee. Following the story so far. So far
so easy. Okay? I'm going away. I don't know. I'm I'm gonna I will come back. My wife and children are
there. I can't put the property in their name because And I trust you so much that I am transferring legal
title of the property to you. Now, comes another important aspect of what I've just done, okay? When I
transferred the property to the trustee, it was in the belief and on the understanding that what? Hey,
trustee. This is not for you to enjoy, you know? This is for you to administer and manage on behalf of
my dependence. This is for you to administer and manage on behalf of my dependence. How? Maybe
rent it out. Manage the property. Maybe sell it if the price is right. Because I may not return. Following?
So, we've understood 2 key points here. The first key point is that legal title was given to the trustee.
The second key point is that even though you are empowered with the legal title, Over time, many
trustees abuse the trust. What's that mean? How do you abuse the trust? You For yourself. Any rent
from the proceeds you take? Or maybe you sell off the property and disappear? You abuse your
position. Who's left in the lurch? Wife and kids. Wife and kids are left in the lurch. Case goes to court.
Case goes to court. Okay? What type of title did the common law courts recognize? What type of title
did the common law courts recognize? Label title. Did your wife and kids have any title? There's no title.
You must understand that first. Okay? So the common law courts ignored the please of the wife and the
kids. Ignored their position because they did not have any recognized form of title which the common
law courts could recognize because there's no title basically. No title basically. Now who would look
upon this and say, Yeah. The courts of equity will look upon this and say, come on your card. This is so
unfair. What was the intention of the owner to benefit the wife and kids. Then the common law calls it,
but they have no title. They have no title. Oh, they have no title. Then we, the Court of Equity will create
a title for them. What would that title be called? Equitable title. Why is it called an equitable title?
Because it's the code of equity that created it. That's why. Are you following? So that that is the doctrine
of trust. So let's look at the notes here. I've just told all that to you so that the story becomes easier to
follow. Now the legal terminology. Okay? The settler is the landowner who goes away. The settler is the
landowner who goes away. Alright. Not knowing whether he'll be back. The trustee is the person whom
he appointed. And what's another feature about the trustee? He holds the what type of title? Legal title.
How come he holds a legal title? Oh, because the landowner trusted him and empowered him by giving
him the legal title. Who's the beneficiary? Wife and kids? Why are they called the beneficiary? Why are
they called the beneficiary, you think? Anybody? Why would the wife and kids be called beneficiaries?
Because they were intended to benefit from this arrangement. That's why. Yeah. So it's logical. It's not
illogical at all. The trustee is the trusted person, but, of course, he abused the trust. The beneficiary is
the person to whom the settler intended the benefit of the property to go to. What I've just illustrated to
you is this. Okay? Is this something you need to know? You've got to know this. Let's draw again.
Okay? Settler. Please hear. Trust you. Wife and kids. I'll just call them wife and kids. What was
common law stance? Let's repeat. Common law stance was that wife and kids had no recognized form
of tagline. If you want to benefit The record is the trustee's name, not your name. K? Code of equity
found that to be such an unfair outcome because it was more focused on intent rather than the form.
Remember the maxim? Focus on intent rather than the form. And what was the intent? Whose intent?
Not the trustee's intent. Not the wife's intent. Settlers intent. What was his intent? His intent was to have
the property managed for the benefit of them. That's why they are called the beneficiaries. Now let me
explain this bullet point which is so important. Okay? What the code of equity came to the conclusion
was when obtained sent to you? The person in whom the legal estate is vested is just a nominal owner.
What's nominal? If you're a nominal owner, what is a name only? Just put it in your name. Substance is
not for you. You're just a nominal owner. The beneficiaries were the owners of this estate. The true
owners. That was the intervention of equity And what we find is that this whole concept had a very
important implication because legal ownership is now separated from beneficial. You can use beneficial
Ownership. It's a difference between legal and beneficial ownership. Right? It all started because of the
intervention of the code of equity. The whole thing is this illustrated here. Okay? So what I've just told
you is is in this picture. Alright? So let's fill in some more a bit more here. Okay? Converse legal title.
Trustee has what type of title? K? Beneficiary has beneficial or equitable because that was the
intention, the true intention of the settler. Is that clear? Alright. So I put it in a very simplified manner for
you to understand. So this is our first example of equitable right. Who? Wife and kids. Let's look at
another example. Equitable interest can also arise when there is noncompliance with formalities. What
does that mean? So let's look at one of the requirements. For example, section 53 states the
convenience of an estate or interest in land must be made by deed in the English language. The law
states, you know, the laws directs that if you want to sell your land, you need to do it by deed in the
English language. Now let's rewind back to early, 19th century Singapore, early 20th century
Singapore. Mhmm. Documents were done in our different ethnic languages, Mandarin or Tamil or in
Malay or something. That means it doesn't fulfill this requirement. Right? Doesn't fulfill this. Now what
the law said is, if the intention of the parties can be proven to be sincere and fulfill all the requirements
of contract, then even though you have not complied with the formalities, there will still be a title given to
the buyer. But but what type of title will it be? It will be an equitable type. I mean, you didn't follow the
procedure, you know? Because one of the problems was that common law was too demanding about
procedure. The the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the
the the the the the the the intention of the parties is, don't just go by the format. Don't just go by the
format. But we will recognize that they have some form of rights and that is a equitable title. So now I
think we've come to what is actually the hardest part. If you can understand this, I know what you're
You have to know what? You have to know. Common law created legal rights. Card of equity created
equitable rights. Who's the winner? Alright. So this is where we say the main As a starting rule, legal
rights are enforceable against the whole world. Like champion. If you have legal rights, they are
enforceable against anyone. Then you think no one is there to talk about anymore. Because it's
enforceable against the whole world back. Okay. This is where equity came in. Okay? Now this is the
harder part. Equitable interest is enforceable against the whole world except the bona fide purchaser
for value without notice. Now what's that? Okay. So that's the hard part. I'm trying to simplify it for you.
Okay? Now you look at my example. Alright? Look at my example. So we have the scenario. Right?
We've got the settler. You've got the trustee who abused his trust and you've got the white van keys.
Let's revise. Trusting as legal title. Good against the world at large. Remember? Right? Wife and
children, no no title, but court of equity recognized. What do we call it? Beneficial title or equitable title.
Remember? Okay. Let's call that. Now let's see. After the trustee, how did he abuse his trust? What he
did was he sold it to a purchaser. He sold it to purchaser p. What's the question looming in your mind
now about p? Trustee sold it to p. Does p have a legal title? Yes. Yes. It's good against the whole world.
Okay? Now the ball is in the court of the beneficiary. Okay? The equitable title. Which is let's go back.
The equitable title can be enforced against anyone except except there's the exemption. A purchase for
value without notice. Let's go back here now. Okay? We now need to question the profile of pain.
What's pay's profile? What's bona fide purchaser? Bought in good faith. What's for value? Paid
valuable consideration. The property he bought from the trustee is a $1,000,000 property, but he
bought it for 30,000. Oh, really? Because they're not already without notice. Did he know that this was
actually trust property? Did he have knowledge? These are the questions that we have to ask about p
because the questions to ask about p are all these questions. Paid market value for the property
without knowing it's a trust. Paid market value for the property without knowing it's a trust. Then, okay,
here comes the most important question now. If p can fulfill all those three ingredients, whose title will
prevail? Who's title will it be? Beneficiaries or? But p must check all these 3. Now the beneficiary comes
up with evidence that p is a relative of t and paid and undervalued, then you haven't fulfilled this one. If
you haven't fulfilled this, beneficiary title will prevail. Are you following? So let's go back to the rules.
Okay? A legal interest is good against the whole world. But equitable interest has some power too. But
the power of an equitable interest is that if these ingredients are met, it will fail. That's what you're
saying. Who will get priority? Legal title will get priority. Legal. Legal. Let me repeat. The legal title held
by the purchaser will be more powerful. Why? Because he fulfill all these requirements. So when I give
him a question, you must say, was there something in the sale between t and p whereby his behavior
was unconscionable in any way? Because if it is, who will get priority? To me, this is the hardest part of
today's class, To me, this is the hardest part of today's class. Trying to understand this. Don't worry if
it's all not digested because I will do it in detail during the tutorial. But what I do want you to take away
is that at least you've got the existence of legal title, equitable title. Legal title always trumps. But then
then what about the equitable? The equitable will trump if these are met. Alright? Okay. Remedies.
We've already talked about monetary compensation. Right? Compensation. Right? We've talked about
it. We also use examples of where monetary compensation may not be enough. Tell me about
monetary compensation. And I asked whether you can remember the remember the case of Hadley
and Baxendale. Hadley and Baxendale from year 1 work was that. You can claim for any compensation
which is a reasonable arising from the breach of the contract, for example. But But because you
breached the contract, my event failed. Because my event failed, I couldn't secure another contract.
You know that kind of thing? No. Causation. Without any pain. Causation. So damages will take them
into account. So I've given you the example, right, where you reach a contract to deliver certain goods.
It didn't arrive on time. Your event was a failure. You lost contracts because of that. So that is the what
is it? Extend of damages, right? So there's different types of damages and I'm gonna go through this
because this is year 1 work. You don't have to really remember this in detail but, liquidated damages is
Fixed sum stated in the contract. The contract itself states, fixed sum. That's liquidated damages.
Alright. Don't worry too much about it. Just to trigger your memory about damages. I want to go more
into equitable. And last week, actually, I've already done it with you because I talked about the sale of 2
properties by the owner. We already have a contract to sell this unit to me. Okay? Few days later, he
changes his mind and said, I will compensate you. It's no longer available for sale. Why don't you take
the adjoining unit? That's the example I gave you last week. And we said, no. In a case like that, the
property which I liked is at Terro Genius, one of a kind, unique. And I don't want your monetary
compensation. I want the rest it itself, the thing itself. This is what I want, and that is how specific
performance came up. What? What's specific performance? A court of equity will give you the suitable
remedy because however much money the plaintiff the defendant gives you, you cannot go and buy
another unit like that. So then what is it that the plaintiff wants? He wants the unit. That's specific
performance. And it took the code of equity to come up with the innovative remedy to solve the problem
which the plaintiff is facing because the money was not enough. And then we just talked about this. We
talked about it in relation to passing, nuisance, stop order. Plagiarizing, copyright infringement, all will
require a stop order. Guess who came up with this innovative remedy? It was a court of equity. So
these 2 are equitable remedies. They are called equitable remedies because it was a court of equity
that came up with it. That's all. Okay. Rather than the common law court, precision, rectification, year 1,
but don't worry about it. When a contract can be rescinded for misrepresentation. I don't want to buy
this unit because you told me it's been, you know, approval has been obtained. Actually, approval has
not been obtained. I will receive. Rectification is when there is a mistake. Okay. Also, equitable remedy.
Last but not least, today, what's the scenario? Fast forward to today. Do we have a code of equity?
Have you ever heard in Singapore reference being made to the Singapore Court of Equity. No. Right.
No. Right. We have heard state courts majest high court, Court of Appeal. I've never mentioned Court
of Equity because there's no Court of Equity anymore. No more. Rather, the court have been fused.
The courts have been fused. What does that mean? Whether you go to the state courts, high court, or
court of appeal, they have now been empowered to either give you common law remedy of damages or
equitable remedy. They're empowered to do that. Under one roof. No need to go to different courts.
That's back in history. That's how it started and result is that the courts have been fused. The courts
have been fused. No need to go to separate courts for different remedies. This is the legislation that
said that under one roof, you can have common law and equity. K? You don't have to go to separate
places anymore. And then, by the same courts. So let's close with this now. So what are the sources of
laws for us today? Remember, we follow the common law system. We still have cases, and we still
have no change. There's no change. It's not everything is still the same except the case law may have
been from the kings or queens courts. It's called the common law. And then courts of equity by the law
chancellor, also known as the chancellery court. Alright? That's our sources. And then, what we also
need to remember very clearly in our mind, this is the one that you will be questioned on. I can tell you
that. Because that's the conceptually more difficult one. What's the difference between legal rights and
equitable rights? Why do we need to know? Oh, because they both have bundles of rights. That's why.
They both have bundles of rights but they're not equally powerful. The power of an equitable right. The
power of an equitable bundle of rights holder will depend on the profile of the legal right holder. Was he
bonafide? Did he purchase for value? Did he have notice? That will decide whose title will trump.
Alright? More about it in tutorial 2. Thank you, and see you for tutorial tomorrow. Please prepare Have
your name, taxes.